Hi Dong,

Many thanks for your review. Please see my response inline.

Thanks,
Jensen


On Fri, May 19, 2023 at 11:33 PM <gd=40tongji.edu.cn@dmarc.ietf.org> wrote:

> Dear ALTOers and authors of draft-ietf-alto-oam-yang,
>
> Below is my review for draft-ietf-alto-oam-yang-07.
>
> Since I'm new to ALTO, please consider my review comments as suggestions
> for reference purposes.
> If you believe any of my comments are irrelevant, please feel free to
> ignore them.
>
> Best regards,
> Dong
>
>
> ==============================================
>
>
> Section 4.4., paragraph 11:
>
> >       Figure 1: A Reference ALTO Server Architecture and YANG Modules
>
>   In Figure 1, the arrow labels marked with "write" and "read"
>   for the Data Broker can be confusing. If we follow the semantic
>   of the "write" arrow, then the "read" arrow can be understood as
>   Data Broker reads Algorithm Plugin. It would be better to maintain
>   consistency in the semantic of the arrows by following the "src as
>   subject, dst as object, and label as predicate" convention. This
>   would help to clarify the direction and purpose of the data flow
>   between components in the architecture.
>

Good catch. We will fix the arrow directions.


>  5.  Design of ALTO O&M Data Model
>
>
> Section 5.1., paragraph 2:
>
> >    As shown in Figure 2, the top-level container 'alto' in the "ietf-
> >    alto" module contains a single 'alto-server' and a list of 'alto-
> >    client' that are uniquely identified.
>
>   The document uses both single and double quotation marks (e.g.,
>   'alto', "ietf-alto", 'alto-server'), are they written by design? Or
>   a consistent format is possible?
>

All the quotation marks should be double. We will fix this.


> >    The list 'alto-client' defines a list of configurations for other
> >    applications to bootstrap an ALTO client.  These data nodes can also
> >    be used by data sources and information resource creation algorithms
> >    that are configured by an ALTO server instance.
>
>
> Section 5.3.2., paragraph 1:
>
> >    To satisfy R2 in Section 4.2, the ALTO server instance contains the
> >    the logging data nodes shonw in Figure 7.
>
>   s/shonw/shown
>

Fixed.


> >    The 'logging-system' data node provides configuration to select a
> >    logging system to capture log messages generated by an ALTO server.
>
>
> Section 5.4.1., paragraph 5:
>
> >    *  A unique `source-id' for resource creation algorithms to
> >       reference.
>
>   s\`source-id'\'source-id'
>

Fixed.


> >    *  The 'source-type' attribute to declare the type of the data
> >       source.
>
>
> Section 7., paragraph 0:
>
> > 7.  ALTO OAM YANG Modules
>
>   This section has no description, or if the YANG spec has already
>   explained everything, just ignore this comment.
> > 7.1.  The "ietf-alto" YANG Module
>
>
> Section 8., paragraph 8:
>
> >    The "ietf-alto" supports an HTTP listen mode to cover cases where the
> >    ALTO server stack does not handle the TLS termination itself, but is
> >    handled by a separate component.  Special care should be considered
> >    when such mode is enabled.  Note that the default listen mode is
> >    "https".
>
>   s/"https"/HTTPS
>

"https" is a case node of the "transport" choice under
"alto-server-listen-stack" grouping. This is not a nit.


>
>   What is the HTTP listen mode and TLS termination? I think they refer to
> the implementation of an HTTP(s) server and closing HTTPS connection by
> server.
>  If so, they are general processes which are out of the scope of OAM
> security,
>  so I feel there is no need to list it here.
>

The security considerations are not only limited to OAM but all the
operations of the YANG data model. But thanks for the comment. We will
clarify this.


> >    Also, please be aware that these modules include choice nodes that
> >    can be augmented by other extended modules.  The augmented data nodes
> >    may be considered sensitive or vulnerable in some network
> >    environments.  For instance, an augmented case of the "source-params"
> >    choice in "data-source" may include authentication information about
> >    how to access a data source including private network information.
> >    The "yang-datastore" case in Appendix A.3 is such an example.  The
> >    "restconf" and "netconf" nodes in it may reveal the access to a
> >    private YANG datastore.  Thus, those extended modules may have the
> >    NACM extension "default-deny-all" set.
