# Design Scope and Requirements {#sec-req}

## Scope of Data Models for ALTO O&M {#scope}

The following items are in the scope of the data models specified in this document:

- Deploying an ALTO server/client.
- Operating and managing an ALTO server/client.
- Configuring functionality/capability configuration of ALTO services.
- Monitoring ALTO-related performance metrics.

This document does not normatively define any data model related to a specific
implementation, including:

- Data structures for how to store/deliver ALTO information resources (e.g.,
  database schema to store a network map).
- Data structures for how to store information collected from data sources.
  (e.g., database schema to store topology collected from an Interface to the
  Routing System (I2RS) client {{RFC7921}})

However, examples of these are provided in the Appendices.

## Basic Requirements {#requirements}

Based on recommendations in {{RFC7285}} and {{RFC7971}}, the
data models provided by this document satisfy basic requirements listed in
[](#TableReq).

| Requirement                                                                                         | Reference                                                 |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------                          | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| R1: The data model should support configuration for ALTO server setup.                              | Section 16.1 of {{RFC7285}}                               |
| R2: The data model should provide logging management.                                               | Section 16.2.1 of {{RFC7285}}                             |
| R3: The data model should provide ALTO-related management information.                              | Section 16.2.2 of {{RFC7285}}                             |
| R4: The data model should support configuration for security policy management.                     | Section 16.2.6 of {{RFC7285}}                             |
| R5-1: The data model should support configuration for different data sources.                       | Section 16.2.4 of {{RFC7285}}, Section 3.2 of {{RFC7971}} |
| R5-2: The data model should support configuration for information resource generation algorithms.   | Section 16.2.4 of {{RFC7285}}                             |
| R5-3: The data model should support configuration for access control at information resource level. | Section 16.2.4 of {{RFC7285}}                             |
| R6: The data model should provide metrics for server failures.                                      | Section 16.2.3 of {{RFC7285}}, Section 3.3 of {{RFC7971}} |
| R7: The data model should provide performance monitoring for ALTO-specific metrics.                 | Section 16.2.5 of {{RFC7285}}, Section 3.4 of {{RFC7971}} |
{: #TableReq title="Basic Requirements of Data Model for ALTO O&M."}

## Additional Requirements for Extensibility {#extra-req}

R8: As the ALTO protocol is extensible, the data models for ALTO O&M should
allow for augmentation to support potential future extensions.

## Overview of ALTO O&M Data Models for Reference ALTO Architecture

[](#alto-ref-arch) shows a reference architecture for an ALTO server
implementation. It indicates the major server components that an ALTO server
usually needs to include and the YANG modules that these server components
need to implement.

The following server components need to implement the 'ietf-alto' module ([](#alto-model)):

Server manager:
  : Provides the functionality and configuration of the server-level
  management, including server listen stack setup, server discovery setup,
  logging system configuration, global metadata, and server-level security
  configuration.

Information resource manager:
  : Provides the operation and management for creating, updating, and
  removing ALTO information resources.

Data source listener:
  : An ALTO server may start multiple data source listeners. Each data source
  listener defines a communication endpoint that can fetch ALTO-related
  information from data sources. The information can be either raw
  network/computation information or pre-processed ALTO-level information.

The following components need to implement the 'ietf-alto-stats' module
([](#alto-stats-model)) to provide statistics information:

Performance monitor:
  : Collects ALTO-specific performance metrics at a running ALTO server.

Logging and fault manager:
  : Collects runtime logs and failure events that are generated by an ALTO server and the service
  of each ALTO information resource.

The following components are also important for an ALTO server, although they
are not in the scope of the data models defined in this document:

Data broker:
  : An ALTO server may implement a data broker to store network/computation
  information collected from data sources or cache some preprocessed data. The
  service of the ALTO information resource can read them from the data broker
  to calculate ALTO responses and return to ALTO clients.

Algorithm plugin:
  : The service of each ALTO information resource needs to configure an algorithm to decide
  how to calculate the ALTO responses. The algorithm plugins implement those
  algorithms. User-specified YANG modules can be applied to different algorithm
  plugins by augmenting the ALTO modules
  ([](#alto-ext-model)).

Generally, the ALTO server components illustrated above have the following
interactions with each other:

- Both the server manager and information resource manager will report
  statistics data to the performance monitor and the logging and fault manager.
- The algorithm plugins will register callbacks to the corresponding ALTO
  information resources upon configuration; Once an ALTO information
  resource is requested, the registered callback algorithm will be invoked.
- A data source listener will fetch data from the configured data source using
  the corresponding data source API in either proactive mode (polling) or
  reactive mode (subscription/publication).
- A data source listener will send the preprocessed data to a data
  broker.
- An algorithm plugin may read data from an optional data broker to calculate
  the ALTO information resource.

~~~
  +----------------------+      +-----------------+
  | Performance Monitor: |<-----| Server Manager: |
  |  "ietf-alto-stats"   |<-+ +-|  "ietf-alto"    |
  +----------------------+  | | +-----------------+
                          report
  +----------------------+  | | +-------------------+
  | Logging and Fault    |  +---| Information       |
  | Manager:             |<---+ | Resource Manager: |
  | "ietf-alto-stats"    |<-----|    "ietf-alto"    |
  +----------------------+      +-------------------+
                                         ^|
                                         || callback
                                         |v
     .............          ................................
    /             \ <------ . Algorithm Plugin:            .
    . Data Broker .  read   .   "example-vendor-alto-alg"  .
    ...............         ................................
           ^
           | write
  +----------------+  Data Source  ++=============++
  | Data Source    |      API      ||             ||
  | Listener:      | <=====-=====> || Data Source ||
  |  "ietf-alto"   |               ||             ||
  +----------------+               ++=============++
~~~
{: #alto-ref-arch title="A Reference ALTO Server Architecture and ALTO YANG Modules"}

<!-- End of sections -->
