Hi authors,

Thanks for starting this work on a YANG model for ALTO servers. I believe this will be a useful component to support the operational features of ALTO in real deployments.

I have done a "sanity review" rather than a detailed technical review.

In summary, this looks like a reasonable starting point to address some of the work in the WG for handling OAM from an operational point of view.

Hope this helps.

Best,
Adrian

==observations==

Obviously (!) there is no YANG in this model yet. I think that is OK for
a work in progress, but I'm not sure about adopting it until at least a
first attempt has been made.

---

The Title says the document is about OAM for ALTO protocol, but the
Abstract says "operations and management". I prefer the Abstract's
choice of words.

---

Extensibility

The document is good to mention that it is a requirement that the model
be extensible for ALTO protocol extensions. And it is right that it
focus on the base protocol and the core extensions already published as
RFCs.


What is needed, however, is a discussion of how that objective has been
met and how it is expected that extensions will be handled.

I suggest doing this by a new section "Extending this Data Model". You
won't need to write much.

---

I really like Table 2 and the indication of what requirements are being
addressed.

Three points:

1. I did not check back to RFC 7285 to see that all of the requirements
   are listed. I do note that there is a gap (16.2.3) and assume that
   that is deliberate.

2. The text before the table mentions RFC 7971 but that doesn't appear
   in the table

3. There is not traceability of the solution to these requirements
   (e.g., resolved by the cost-metric data object). Section 4.2 maps the
   requirements into more specific requirements, but still lacks the
   traceability of what elements of the model satisfy the requirements.

---

4.2

I'm not sure of the meaning of "should" in the bullet points in this
section. Since the model has now been written (well, will have been
written in this document), it is probably safe to say "the model does
these things".

The section concludes with a note about what may be considered in a
future version of this document. That is fine *if* it is the intention
to do that work. Of course, the anxious reader would like that new
version to be now!

(Note that 5.1 has a similar note. It is probably not necessary to
have the note present twice.)

---

5.1

  The ALTO YANG module defined in this document has all the common
   building blocks for ALTO OAM.

I think this probably has no meaning! "All the common building blocks"?

But also, this is another use of OAM rather than "operations and
management"

---

I'm not sure of the benefit of including the full tree at the start of
5.1 and then showing each of the subtrees in the following sections. I
have no objection, but I note that the duplication introduces the chance
of a conflict.

---

5.4 has two paragraphs about additional data sources and retrieval
mechanisms.

   The data-source/source-params node can be augmented for different
   types of data sources.  This data model only includes import
   interfaces for a list of predefined data sources.  More data sources
   can be supported by future documents and other third-party providers.

Just need to say how. Presumably by augmenting something.

   Note: Current source configuration still has limitations.  It should
   be revised to support more general southbound and data retrieval
   mechanisms.

Is that revision intended for this document, or (like the previous
paragraph) for future documents? If intended for this document, you have
Appendix A for listing the work still to be done and so this sort of
note could be moved out to there.

---

5.4.1 has "current ALTO OAM data model" meaning that there is a general
issue about naming this work. I still prefer that is the "ALTO
operations and management data model"

---

5.4.2

It may be obvious to all ALTO people (or maybe all YANG people) what a
"prometheus data source" is. But I have no clue. At least a reference is
needed.

---

5.6

Not sure, but I think that maybe the counter32 objects in this section
should all be of type gauge.

---

When section 6 is written, I think that some of the server performance
data in the model will be highly sensitive. It is commercially
sensitive how hard a server is having to work and how close it is to
exploding. It is valuable information for an attacker to know that a
small push will cause a server to be over-committed, or to know which
servers are doing most work. It may be possible to deduce things about
the users in the network from how busy a server is.

==nits==

idnits shows the following warnings that need to be fixed:

** The document seems to lack an IANA Considerations section.  (See
   Section 2.2 of https://www.ietf.org/id-info/checklist for how to
   handle the case when there are no actions for IANA.)

>>> In fact you'll need one of these to get the right codepoints
    assigned for the new YANG module.

  == Unused Reference: 'RFC7286' is defined on line 679, but no explicit
     reference was found in the text

  == Unused Reference: 'RFC8571' is defined on line 703, but no explicit
     reference was found in the text

  == Unused Reference: 'RFC8686' is defined on line 709, but no explicit
     reference was found in the text

---

Need to capitalise "YANG" throughout.

---

5.1

OLD

        |--rw meta* [meta-key]

NEW

        +--rw meta* [meta-key]

END


---

5.3

   It can also include an accepted-group node containing a list of user-
   groups that can access this ALTO information resource.

Given the use of "MUST" in the previous and subsequent paragraph, this
is probably s/can/MAY/

But then you have

   For each type of ALTO information resource, the creation intent MAY
   also need type-specific parameters.

I don't think "MAY need" is helpful. If it is needed it MUST be present.

So, probably,

   For each type of ALTO information resource, the creation intent may
   also need type-specific parameters, and if needed they MUST be
   present.
